order in the public hearing today is for
application 24
tx02 the application of Tyler Ricker
property located at 166 Route 6 the
applicant is Seeking a special permit to
operating a home op occupation plumbing
and
heating per section 4.12a
of the zoning
regulations okay the the notice did talk
about another another public hearing to
follow this one but that will be
deferred we'll talk about that later so
this will be the only public hearing for
this
evening
um I
see five members here tonight and
Kevin
um the rules for a public hearing are
that anybody can ask questions and are
encouraged to during the public hearing
of the applicant the uh once the the
commission gets to deliberation only
those members that are actually seated
will be uh allowed to ask questions or
comment at that
point I think we've got uh five
Commission members here counting Kevin
the alternate and so uh that means
everybody that's here now will be able
to participate when we get to the
regular meeting the
deliberations with that uh I'd like to
open the hearing up uh by hearing from
the applicant if you can uh you know
tell us what you're looking to do out
there Tyler that appreciate
that uh yeah I've been in uh air
conditioning for a little over eight
years now um currently doing mostly
commercial uh we do get involved in a
little bit of residential um but my
background is mostly commercial which
does translate very well to the
residential World um before that I did a
lot of facilities maintenance that kind
of thing um so very familiar with
repairs and and taking care of
mechanical and that kind of thing
so how many employees do you
have um with the company I'm currently
with uh we're at about 18 right
now and those 18 employees that would be
working out of your house no no no no
that's my day job that's my day job okay
yeah what I'm doing now is kind of just
a soft start and and just kind of
starting to get out there on my own so
okay I understand
um anything else you want to let us know
about uh
about what you're
doing um and you don't have to I think
it was pretty
straightforward yeah yeah I I think
that's all I can say
Okay Jim what have you got for us on on
the completeness of his application I
know you were working on the checklist
for that
today yeah I I find it complete
um with one exception and and that's
uh the site plan is not an A2 it's not
drawn to A2 standards and typically that
has been handled by way of a
waiver there's not there's not much
going on there there's no so there's no
construction utilizing existing space in
a garage and um office space in the
house as is as is allowed um as a use of
right the the parcel if anybody uh
doesn't know it's it's right on Route
six past burnap Brook uh near the
field the Post Farm field that's on the
on the west side of of Route Six the
house itself is is pretty well hidden um
possibly seasonally it's visible I'm not
sure and said the same thing about um
may be visible
from Aspen road but I don't know for a
fact it's it's set fairly far
back I believe its neighbors are the uh
po Farm in the the firing range and five
or six neighbors along Aspen
all so there's
no no health code issues there's
no no water
issues um no storage was
requested um we did speak about a sign
um I did throw a little language in a in
a draft motion if um the commission
chooses to move in that
direction okay anything else Jim
no so I'll open uh open the hearing up
to uh the commission members at this
point any any of the commission members
have any questions for Tyler
the parel is almost eight Acres yep
going be like six or 700 feet off the
road I agree yep um sounds good so
if if there's
no other
questions for Tyler and and I don't have
any
um I will ask ask members uh of the
public
or others from the town I guess that
would be Eric and Katherine I think are
the only other two people on the call
tonight if you have any uh questions or
comments uh at this
point this is Katherine and I don't okay
thank you
Katherine I have no issues with it it
seems like a fairly straightforward
homebased business
application um the applicant would have
to understand if the business increased
to a size that he had employees working
there out of there for him he would
probably have to go back for a
modification of the special permit but
um if he's just running this as a side
business out of existing space and he's
not building anything and he's not
storing large scale materials on the
outside you know the only other thing I
would say is just that you have to be
aware of that we do have a residential
transfer station so if you're starting
to produce waste associated with the B
building of any significant scale you're
going to have to get your own dumpster
um from the town's perspective that
seems like it's it Jed I have no further
comment no thanks
Eric so at this point do any of the
commission members uh have any concerns
about closing the public hearing at this
point
I have no concerns yeah thanks Kevin
yeah I have
nothing okay so at
709 the public hearing is
closed next up on the agenda is we'll
start the regular
meeting and at 7:09 I'll call the
regular meeting to
order first up is roll call and seating
of
alats I see an cre is here
Scott
Leanne
Kevin and myself so Kevin you will be
seated for Steve
Nelson I guess you'll be seated for the
for the V VY Steve Nelson is no longer
with us so you're you're seated as a
regular member filling in for the
vacancy created by
Steve next item up is uh additions or
changes to the agenda and I have
none anybody have any uh additions or
changes hearing none moving on to public
comment issues are concerns not on the
current
agenda Katherine you have anything for
us there at this
point no I don't because I understand
that uh the public hearing on the Gravel
Pit wasn't held and that uh Mr Hy is
going to just give a
report as part of the regular meeting so
yep that's correct okay so thank you
moving on to new
business the new business item is uh the
discussion action application of Tyler
Ricket 166 Route 6 applicant seeking a
special permit to operate a Plumbing
Heating
business
um I think uh you know from from the
size of the lot the location of the
house the size of the business all that
stuff uh you seems pretty uh
pretty good fit to me um any commission
members have any any concerns or
anything that uh you want to discuss or
talk about at this
point we need a waiver for the fact that
there was no way
to or that just something Tyler can
do um well so
I I was looking you at that when when I
was going through looking at the
checklist
today Jim said he was you
know expecting a waiver for on for the
A2
survey and
uh I asked why wouldn't we just
put an a for that instead of a waiver
and and and the answer was because that
requesting a waiver is what we've
traditionally done on the commission and
I do recall that we've done that in the
past you know I
think and my thought was that with
the size of the property being big size
of the business being
small um an A2
survey if he doesn't have one apparently
he does or else Jim wouldn't have
mentioned it is uh an awful lot of
expense for essentially no gain in my
mind and so
uh I could have lived with Jim putting
na in that box or or the waiver
um but I think you know with them with
going with what we've done before which
is uh
We've we've uh
you know acted on a waiver for that kind
of a consideration I think that's
probably a reasonable
approach the end result was it wasn't it
drawn on a A2 survey
though I'm sorry wasn't it wasn't
actually drawn on an A2
survey I I thought I saw that in I don't
believe so I'm of the opinion that once
you draw on an A2 it's it's it loses its
credential so
means yeah it was I
mean a two survey that he drew on so
okay yeah not like he he's just uh
pencil something out on a piece of paper
you know no and as you drive by and look
at uh look at the lot out there you
could see that uh he isn't going to be
bothering any of his
neighbors no any other questions from
the commission at this
point okay I have uh none either Jim you
had mentioned that you had a draft
motion for us to consider yeah I had
sent it out um I mean I guess I'll just
uh read off what I have my notes um move
to approve the application of Tyler
Rickard 166 Route 6 um applicants
seeking special permit to operate home
occupation specifically A Plumbing
Heating
business um in accordance with
the application and plan on file um I
threw a couple conditions on there just
that the signing should be in accordance
with the
regulations um that the applicant is
responsible f for filing the the
requisite notice I just like to put that
in there um just to make the applicant
aware of that um and that lighting is in
compliance with Section 141 and section
23 any any new lighting that's added in
accordance with section
um 421 and
23 um Eric had mentioned the trash issue
um that might be another item for the
conditions hey don't we also need a
comment in there about this waiver of
the A2 survey that was that should be
voted on prior to voting on The the
application I
believe um
okay now you were you were thinking the
applicant was going to put a uh a sign
out on Route Six well you mentioned it
um and I just there are regulations
within the home occupation section um
limiting to by two by two I believe and
I just wanted to throw that out there I
I didn't think my understanding is he
wasn't going to put a sign initially but
that at some point in the future
[Music]
yeah if I Jim just answered that if I
did you know I'm not plan on putting a
sign up at this time but if I did it
would be something very similar to the
uh signage that's out there for this
meeting that we're having tonight for
the special permit um nothing nothing
crazy big or anything like that just
small yard
sign okay well I would I would point out
that uh you on you're on a state road
out there and so you know the state
has probably a say in what what the
signs would be but for the purposes of
tonight's application you know I did not
see anything in there that discussed a
sign and so uh not I was not expecting
to see one at this point yep
yep okay um
so I guess with Jim's recommendation I
will make a motion that we wave the
requirement for the applicant
to provide a new A2 survey other than
the one that he's already marked up with
his business
notes a
second okay thanks and that was Leanne
right right okay any other discussion on
that particular
motion hearing none um I'll call for a
vote on approval of the waiver for the
A2 survey an i Scott I
lean I Kevin I and I vote I as well that
motion passes 500
also uh we'll make a motion to approve
the special permit application as Jim
discussed I'll second it thank you Ann
any discussion on that
application Chad I know that uh item 51
referring to parking or the plan of
parking when you see attached uh you
know it says self-employed no employees
but that item is specifically
specifically related to the parking and
like Eric said I don't know if you want
to mention anything about the scaling of
the
business
or I don't I don't at this point I uh
you know one of the things we we need to
figure out
is you know there is a requirement uh in
this in this regulations on home
occupations that we um reach out and and
review each of the homebased business
occupations I think it's annually when
the guy pays us what's supposed to be is
$50 we don't have a process in place for
that uh yet but I think that's worth
doing just just for those kind of things
uh because um at some point you do get
too big for a homebased business I think
uh where you where you draw that
distinction might be a little different
in this case from uh you would for
somebody who uh the last Homebase
business was a landscaping company on uh
you a very small lot on Meritt Valley
know it would be different for him than
it would be for for Tyler um but we've
got to come up with a process that lets
us keep an eye on those things yeah Jed
I am working on a putting together just
a list of businesses the intent
homebased businesses the idea being that
um the annual collection of the fee sort
of correspond with an inspection of the
property to sort of maintain that Creek
u a lot of these a lot of businesses
tend to just grow incrementally and and
can get away can get a little um Can
exceed What Might Have Been
anticipated upon approval I think that's
probably true and that's kind of why I
like that annual just go out and see
what uh what's going going on there but
again that
uh we'll come through that uh at some
point but as far as tonight uh I'm not
concerned about that yet sounds good
okay and and thanks for the question
Kevin any other comments or
discussions hearing none I will call for
a vote an hi Scott hi
lean hi Kevin hi and I vote I is well
the motion passes
500 Tyler your your business is approved
I would ask you to get a hold of gym at
some point at your convenience and see
what you there's some stuff that you
probably need to do to get the special
permit on the land record
and uh and that's your responsibility
Jim will help you with that but uh we've
had some cases where we go back and look
in the followup documentation wasn't in
the land record so I'm going to try and
make a better point of getting that
done okay not a problem any questions
for us
Tyler uh nope not at this time okay
thank you very much all right thank you
next uh next up is old business and and
uh first is the update for the plan of
conservation and development John I'll
turn that over to you at this point okay
thank you um good evening everyone uh so
I after our last meeting and then
again last week um I believe I forwarded
around the consensus hopefully consensus
um vision statement which I'm putting on
the screen right now hopefully people
can see that um I'll try to make it a
little bit bigger um but this reflects
the the edits and discussions we had uh
last month um I'll just I'll go through
just the the um the central portion of
this um the the the we envision
statements um which we did some some
word smithing and clean up on them um so
we envision an Andover that provides
housing educational
recreational and Civic opportunities
that maintain the community's excellent
quality of life we envision an Andover
that strives to create more affordable
housing to welcome a wider variety of
new residents and households ensures
opportunity for residents and actually
that should be and
insures uh opportunity for residents to
thrive throughout their life
stages uh we envision an Andover that
safeguards the Integrity of our natural
Agricultural and historic resources
through sustainable
conservation we envision economic
development that takes advantage of
major transportation and Trail corridors
that serves the needs of the commercial
needs of the community and is scaled to
fit with the spirit and pace of
Andover we envision a safe and vibrant
Andover that connects the community
through a network of complete streets
and enhances the town Civic campus on
both sides of Route 6 at its heart we
envision Civic investment in
infrastructure and acknowledges and that
that acknowledges and takes measures to
address climate
change
um I'll stop there if anyone has any
any comments or thoughts on on how this
reflects our our discussion last
time no comments I think it looks good
okay um thank you and so then what I did
and hopefully people got a chance to
take a look at this is sort of spinning
this forward um I think the we envision
statements and particularly sort of the
highlighted um you know kind of bumper
sticker version um splits up fairly
nicely into what I would propose to be
essentially a chapter layout for the
plan of conservation and development um
and so these six we envision statements
would basically become the six
substantive um
chapters um of the plan of conservation
and development so the the first chapter
being dealing essentially with quality
of life matters the second being with
affordable housing or housing in general
third being
conservation um fourth being Economic
Development fifth complete streets and
the sixth is climate change and
infrastructure um and under each of
those I put uh I'm sorry um basically
topics that would be covered under each
section because you know again we we are
sort of deviating from a traditional you
know one housing One Transportation One
conservation one Economic Development
one um you know schools or what have you
uh into these more broad
themes and so I would propose the first
one uh the quality of life to talk about
the our existing housing uh the school
system recreational opportunities which
could also perhaps go under commerci or
um conservation but I think they fits
here um government and Civic engagement
and Senior
Services um and so what I would propose
um sort of going forward and again I'll
I'll I'll stop in just a second uh and
get and ask for feedback but what we
would propose is basically then to use
this framework to start the breakdown of
our conversations of the substance so um
for in if we adopted this um in advance
of next meeting you know August or
September depending on how you wanted to
do this um we would basically have the
conversation about the quality of life
elements and would I would send out sort
of a worksheet um for all of you to to
kind of fill in some some blanks between
now and the next meeting as well as
getting some ideas about who else should
be at the table for that discussion um
so in this case where if we're talking
about the school system or recreational
opportunities we might want someone from
the school board uh someone from Parks
and Recreation uh someone from you know
the senior services or senior committee
to talk through you know sort of what
has happened over the last 10 years um
successes failures and and what are we
looking at going forward over the next
decade to kind of set the framework for
each of those topics and then obviously
when we talk about housing we'll have
different groups we talk about
conservation we'll have different groups
but this would be a way to to frame the
discussion sort of group by
group I'll stop right there and and and
Chad if you want to get
feedback okay well I'll ask the other
commission members if they've got any
feedback uh at this
point I guess maybe maybe we'll we'll
ask one question at a time so number one
how how are people feeling about this
framework to basically structure the
plan around those six we envision
themes is there any any
objection or hesitation about that oh
it's a good idea I think it's great
yeah
okay um so then given that and I mean we
don't have to start in this order that's
just how it ended up but if there's if
there's a place where we would like to
start um you know we could just start at
the top and say let's let's talk about
the quality of life thing and if that's
the case I would want your suggestions
on who should be part of our discussion
well I guess before we before we get
there John and I know we talked about a
little bit the other day the uh you know
I'm interested in public Outreach as we
create this thing and and I don't want
to get to the end and we uh you hold a
public information
session and uh find
out there's there's concerns about the
way we we've headed and so I was kind of
thinking you know we've been working on
this for about a year
now I I have gotten a couple of
questions on you
know how's the survey coming you know
what what did you get from it and and I
think there's probably a
presentation that would be nice to give
the public an opportunity to
hear from us that that their surveys
weren't in vain what we
got and and before we head on down the
road now as I look at at the the
sections that you've got
here to me I think the only thing I
don't think that we're really working
on yet is the affordable housing piece
and I think that's probably about the
most important thing on there but I
think everything else is kind of
continuing what we're already working
on and
uh and I think that's that's a good news
story we you know we the surveys didn't
point out anything where we were
marching in the wrong
direction
um but I think it would be good for uh
you know the demographic discussion or
whatever you know the whatever is
current ly in the introduction to us you
know we ought to we ought to tell the
public we think we have an excellent
quality of life here and we want to
maintain it and here's a couple of
things that we're going to specifically
address but we're kind of working on all
those now I mean you know I think the
town has is doing a good job on senior
services and we're taking the next step
to get a senior service coordinator or
something I forget what the title is but
you
know I think we're were marching off on
all those
things with the exception of maybe the
affordable housing that's that's kind of
my thought uh you know what's everybody
else think
there I think we really have to
highlight
that some way
yep I mean
even even if there wasn't a lot of input
from the public and I don't think there
will be because I think we' got good
stuff here they've had a chance
to provide and and hear what uh you know
we asked him to do a survey I thought we
got pretty good response from the town
on filling it out I'd like to give them
some feedback uh on that and uh and how
it
got plugged into uh cre this so they
feel that their input uh is welcome and
important
yeah so I I'm I think Jed are you you um
I do think you know a a check-in with
the public that could do a couple of
things um again sort of
presenting facts and input thus far and
I would think that we could do a public
Outreach that covers kind of our
demographic
overview um the result of the survey and
then probably you know possibly a time
to uh
unveil the sort of our shared vision
statement um and and intent for you know
structuring the plan going forward to
kind of basically say this is the back
the background information we've got in
survey and this is where we're headed um
in over the next you know nine months or
so yeah um and even even if we just so
it that thing and we and you presented
this little section that we're looking
at right now after after the vision
statement and say this is the way we're
planning on going forward you're welcome
to attend any of these sessions we're
going to be doing you about one one a
month one every other month something
like that but uh you know we'll we'll
put the word out to you so you
know yeah so I yeah so if that's if
that's how you'd like to do it we you
know I I'd leave it up to you guys on
how you would want to schedule um a
public uh public information session
like
that either either at at an August
meeting or as a separate Standalone
session well and and I I will welcome
feedback on this thought but
my my thought would be that we it may be
the August meeting we run through the
presentation with the commission get
feedback from the commission that
there's nothing that we're leaving out
on the discussion and then maybe in
September we hold that
thing that might be too much though uh
you know what do what do the other
commission members
think I think as far as holding it
during the meeting I think it would
depend on how much is on the agenda for
that particular month um if there was a
lot it could get a little out of hand
having this on top of
everything else it could and uh that
might be a good point maybe we should do
it as a standalone session for the
public just you know
not uh not worry about tying up uh
another meeting
because we never really know till we get
there what the meetings are are gonna I
thought meeting was going to be very
busy it turns out to not be so so there
you go um but we could uh we could run
through it in August and uh then uh you
target I don't have my calendar here but
we could
uh find a date in in September that uh
that we could go through
that sure I think I yeah I think setting
aside setting aside uh you know an
evening for just just a public
information session it'll avoid
complication with any agenda item that
might pop up Y and we could do it in the
new senior center community
center sounds great be
wonderful okay so John I think you know
we can we can talk more offline on that
but that's kind of what I like to do I
would like to give you know the
commission members a chance to weigh in
before we're briefing the public to give
you feedback on uh you know that
we're all in sy so so then public for
great so my marching orders would
basically to prepare the the draft
presentation that we'd go through next
month yep okay I can do that okay I
think that's great and uh the so I know
you went there there was one bullet
under one of the things and it
was Community water
in septic or something
and I wonder what we would be talking
about there because you know we we just
have to comply with the health code so
why what was that about well that's
that's um more to satisfy a a state
statutory requirement um so that one of
one of the state statutory must does for
a municipal plan of conservation and
development is to address what the town
intends to do uh to manage its its
Wastewater um and it know our answer is
probably exceptionally easy we are
letting all private Properties Manage it
themselves and and follow public health
code we have no intent to install sewer
lines uh over the next decade it's as
simple as that but the state okay
requires that
analysis good point and and certainly
easy to comply on that okay that answers
that well thank you John any other any
other uh comments from anybody on uh
where we are on the planet conservation
development this
point no but I have a question about the
affordable housing and I think that John
was gonna he was going to be working
with us on what
steps we we will or should be taking to
uh jump start
this yes so um we've and I and I haven't
I I will I'll acknowledge not having
worked a ton on this um worked a little
bit with with Eric on identifying a
couple of key Municipal properties that
that um I think goes a little bit into
more depth uh an analysis of the of the
land than um Bill Warner had had sort of
cursorily done uh with the affordable
housing plan so we're we're we're
looking at some you know the potential
for for
um you know potential use of of
Municipal property and I am um sort of
tap tapping my network in the in the
home builders um Community uh to look
for potential developers and I've had a
couple of conversations about that this
week uh potential developers who might
be you know interested in um something
like a public private partnership uh
where you know the town would be you
know basically making available some of
their land um you know with the with the
hope that a developer could create um
enough units and enough density that
you know um there could be some lower
income opportunities or more affordable
you know senior retirement opportunities
so it's sort of beating the bushes a
little bit about about developers who
might be interested in that kind of
partnership so that's we're looking into
that right now
good glad you guys are are uh I have
working on it yeah I have a Post-It of a
guy I need to call tomorrow right here
on my
computer anything else
okay I guess uh we'll move on to update
on the status of the application 241 for
the uh Gravel Pit I'll turn it over to
you
Jim yes as you know there was public
hearing slated for tonight and the
applicant backed out wasn't ready for it
um indicated attorney was away um I did
have
a a conversation with um the applicants
attorney today he he reached out to me
and he was asking for information um
Peter Bowman is gentleman's name
um tried to make it clear what the
commission's concerns are I directed him
to the town's website where where the
file is um and hopefully I will be
hearing back from him and um I will be
in contact with Bill
geneves when he returns from vacation I
believe it's next week
but my intent obviously is to to
re read vertise public hearing for the
August
meeting is the attorney available for
that
meeting I mentioned it to him and he he
didn't say he wasn't so I'm gonna hope
hopefully that's hopefully he will
be Tim can you repeat his
name it's Peter Bowman uh chesher
Peter Bowen Bowman B I believe it's B
Manan thank you
okay and Jim is there um any status of
the property um if
it's it's still for sale or is it what
what's the status as far as that goes
I've heard rumors that it's that there's
been offers on it or an offer on it uh
but I don't know anything for a fact and
the attorney didn't I did mention to the
attorney and I haven't been able to get
a hold of bill bill jeny so I don't
really
know okay so one of the uh one of the
items that's
uh of a concern to me you know is is the
timeline for the application goes we
have to open the public hearing within
65 days close public hearing within 35
days of opening it and then acting on
the application within 65 days of
closing the public
hearing there is a caveat that we are
allowed to extend those dates by a total
of 65
days uh with
the agreement of the
applicant normally that is time that the
town would need to go out and
investigate things associated with the
application you know we've we've kind of
given up half of that uh allowance if
you will by agreeing to hold the public
hearing at the August meeting instead of
the July
meeting I would be reluctant to go any
further than that because really the the
purpose of those is is I said I think
the purpose is to allow the time the
town to go out and do extra research so
that we can come up with the right
conclusion so
uh so that's my concern um you know
we've been uh in contact with h our
attorney uh a couple of times over the
last month as as we work our way through
this
um but but I do want make sure that we
don't
uh slip up and and give up all of our
safety margin because the guy uh isn't
ready to go you know the applicant was
certainly uh able to come in on zoom and
uh represent himself uh if if that's
what needed for his application it's up
to him to get other folks there and uh
so I do think that we'll be discussing
this at the August meet
any other questions for Jim on on that
particular
application
okay
um hearing none that completes the old
business we'll move on to approval of
the minutes from the June 18th meeting
and
uh does anybody have any comments on the
minutes first I I keep trying to figure
out a better way to approve the minutes
other than make a motion to approve them
discuss them then have to make a new
motion and what do you do with the old
motion all that stuff I'd like to get
the get the comments on the uh thing and
we can say uh make the motion to approve
as amended so that's that's what I'm
trying to do here as I go
through and I will point out uh you know
the only comment I had on the uh on the
minutes was uh both in the members
present and in the roll call seating of
alternates we uh listed Kevin
England as opposed to arnison and so uh
we need to correct those two but that
was the only thing I saw in the
minutes anybody else have any comments
on the minutes from last
meeting hearing none I'll make a motion
to approve the minutes has amended to uh
get Kevin's last name correct in uh the
uh introduction and line item
to Second
it okay thank you
any other
discussion hearing none I'll call for a
vote an i skot hi
Leanne hi Kevin I yeah I vote I as well
uh the minutes as amended are approved
50000 next up is correspondents
uh Jim any correspondents to talk about
tonight no correspondents
okay administrative reports
uh
Jim okay um just reporting on the status
of what's going on uh do
have's a few houses under construction
well one house under construction um
three in the review
process that to be one on Pine rdge one
on Center Street one on shotty Mill and
the one under construction is is also on
Pine Ridge um the one on house on cider
mil 12 not cider mil Center Street 12
Center is a the applicant is proposing a
an affordable accessory apartment I do
not have a site plan application as of
yet I did request one
um and I will be assuming he moves
forward with with this I will be working
with him on putting together um the
various the deed restriction Etc uh Ian
I'm not going
to um me at the wheel here I know
there's there's plenty of of samples out
there just want to find one that that
works works best
here other than that there's just a lot
of a fair amount of additions sh Barnes
going
up I am working with um New England goo
to and to update the town's zoning map
and and that's just really is
incorporating some changes that have
made over there that were never really
um made put or put into the to the myar
or for instance the when the town
adopted the
ards they made all the R40 and r80 Ard
that was never really done on the on the
zoning map um few few issues like that I
it was recommended that I by um Eric
that I check with the assessors and see
what they're doing for their update
possibly save some resources on that and
I I did commence that prog process um I
don't know whether that's going to work
or not but I I will find
out um other than that I have the I did
send out a
list
of violations zoning and blade
violations and I'd be happy to answer
any
questions on
that any questions for
Jim okay we'll move on to Inland
Wetlands a water
course agent I guess that really lay is
on that would be me then uh we we did
not have an inland Wetlands water course
meeting this month so nothing to report
there and next up is
John Town planner um well I we were just
talking about this
um when we got on the meeting
[Music]
um Eric and I met uh along with first
selectman um the group of Community
Development planners from the capitol
region Council of governments are Cog um
and they are in the process of updating
the the the their Capital Region plan um
and are basically making a point to
visit all I don't know something like 38
of their communities um and so this was
just an opportunity to talk about our
goals um to share with them actually
where we are in our planet conservation
and development Pro uh process and then
just talk about projects that might need
some support um and you know we talked
about some various Transportation stuff
uh our complete streets initiative um
some economic development stuff and and
then particularly some infrastructure uh
things and I think um Eric uh and the
first like one were particularly
emphasizing issues of of culverts that
um are relatively small uh sort of too
small to fit under traditional State um
Bridge replacement programs but still a
hassle and a and a concern of the town
for um an expense replacement expense
standpoint so hopefully um we can
continue to work with with kog and Dot
on on you know possibly some financial
support for for Culvert replacement um
in the next several years uh and then
beyond that I've been in touch um
basically playing phone tag with um the
gentleman who owns the Andover Plaza um
and I just wanted to you know get
together with him on you know a zoom
call or in person to kind of talk about
his his plans and goals for his his
commercial property property and if
there's you know opportunity to to work
with the town and you know um facilitate
a connection out to the to the hop River
Trail and that sort of thing to just
introduce ourselves and and some of our
goals so I'm reaching out to
him any questions for
John okay um next up is commission
discussion in miscellaneous anybody have
any discussion topics that that they
want to talk about
tonight and I've got one which is you
know filling the vacancy on the
commission uh the notice that's out
there now says that if you're interested
to provide your input by the 5th of
August at this point we do have uh you
know two people that have expressed uh
an interest in joining the commission
um So based on uh Kevin you being the
only alate here tonight I was going to
mention that if any of the alets would
like to be become a regular member uh
send your interest to h Carol Lee copy
to me and uh we'll get you on that list
uh I'll send that out by email to uh to
the three alternates because uh you know
Kevin's the only one here tonight and so
they get those in
um it already it already creates a
little bit of a problem that you know
nice problem to have uh never
experienced before is how do we pick
from a couple of good
applicants going forward and my thought
was that I would ask each of the people
that would like to be a commission
member to attend the next meeting on I
think it's August 20th and
uh just tell us in a minute or two why
why they want to join the commission why
they think uh you they're a good fit for
the team and that sort of
thing after that uh you know I was
thinking that uh we would go to
Executive session just so that we didn't
have to uh you know we would feel a
little bit more free to uh discuss who
might be the best candidate uh and that
sort of thing
um and
uh if if we had an alternate they wanted
to be a regular commission member you
know we would go through and we'll pick
that and then uh you
know if there's a hole then in the
alternate slot we'll we'll fill that
with one of the people that wanted to
join the commission as long as they're
willing to be an
Alternet I don't know if that's how it
goes or not you know it's uh
we've
always had a spot to fill and we've been
fortunate enough to get somebody that
was willing to go fill the spot and and
that was that um didn't take a lot of
discussion anybody have any thoughts on
why that's not a good plan or a better
way to do it something else that you
have seen done that worked out
better okay here and none I guess you
know we'll we'll go that way it might
not be the smoothest thing in the world
but uh I think it it'll work and uh so
hopefully by uh the next meeting we'll
we'll come up with uh somebody new to be
on the commission but of the people that
have applied so far uh I think uh
they're both pretty good
now I can't remember if we sent out to
the commission the information we got on
on the applicant so far anybody seen
anything on
uh our applicants yeah okay and then I'm
assuming that got out to everybody good
um that was the only commission
discussion I had for
tonight anybody else at this
point uh Jad maybe I missed it but I
didn't see anything come through on my
end okay
um do you know when it was sent out no
it would it would have been a little bit
ago and uh the reason that I wanted to
ask the the applicants to come talk to
us
is one of the applicants his uh
his email of Interest was was fairly
brief um that he was willing to
and uh and the reason that it was so
brief I think has to do with one uh you
know he and I had talked about planning
and zoning commission at the senior
Christmas party last
year two he was on the ballot last year
and was elected to the position but we
got into a situation where we could not
have three alternates of the same
political party and so
that uh he he couldn't uh he couldn't
fill a spot
um so that's probably why his his input
was a little bit uh brief I think he
would do a great job and and want to uh
you know hear in his words whether he's
excited to be on the commission willing
to be or whatever so that we can address
that the other guy uh not not uh not
much experience on on Planning and
Zoning stuff but uh a very knowledgeable
guy uh seems like a good guy and and
wants to be involved more with the town
and so uh you know he was kind of like
me when I joined the commission didn't
know anything about zoning stuff and uh
but
uh with a little enthusiasm maybe I
learned something I don't know
but but anyhow I think it would be good
to hear from them so I will forward that
forward what I can find out to everybody
again just to make sure everybody's got
it
thanks Jed I think the executive session
the use of an executive session is
pretty commonly
done um yeah it I I looked through you
know the rules on Executive session
again today and and certainly for
personnel items which this is um that's
allowed you know the thing the thing
that we have to remember is that any
votes on actions have to be done back in
the regular meeting so when we can
discuss all we want but to take action
has to be done during the regular
meeting and we can do
that um any other comments thanks
Leanne
welcome next meeting uh we're looking at
August 20th
um with a little bit of luck uh maybe
that can be a hybrid meeting from uh you
know I'm hoping we can use the smaller
meeting room in the new community uh
Senior
Center uh for that
um Eric you think we got a
chance well there's always a chance okay
not going to give you odds not g give
okay well if if not
uh if not we can we can do it like this
but uh I think it would be nice to try
it would be uh a good way to start out
that's after the ribbon cutting so uh
we'll see what we can do and uh I you
know I do have to put out a a public
notice on a public hearing
which would be nice to have that
information yeah okay good point if it's
not I I'll I'll try and work something
I'll try and figure something that's a
good point and uh we'll we'll see if we
can uh predict out from when you need to
put out the uh the notice
um okay we'll see how I'll I'll talk to
Eric uh offline and and uh we'll see uh
we'll see what the odds
are um but that's
that and the next item up is adjournment
any comments before we move to
that thank you all for attending tonight
and supporting the meeting thank you
John for all the hard work uh on the
plan of conservation and development I
think that's coming along
nicely and
uh I'll make a motion to
adjourn second okay and I heard you I
think first
uh all in favor say I I any
opposed any abstain motion passes 500
good night everybody